# DateDimension
The Date Dimension project provides a sample SQL database for creating Date and Time dimensions. Semantic models require a set of date and time values to be used in a variety of ways to allow users to filter and report on data in various ways. By providing a full set of Date and Time values, the creation of reports and dashboards is much simpler.
<br/>
<br/>

## Date Dimension Objects
The solution includes a SQL table with columns that represent various parts of a date value as well as the procedures and functions to populate the table. The solution can also generate Fiscal Year values provided the FY rules are fairly simple. The solution provided a Dimension.Date table and a Dimension.DateAndFY table to store Fiscal year values.  
<br/>
Example values from the Date include:
* Quarter Name:  Quarter 1
* Quarter Long Name:  Quarter 1, 2022
* Quarter Abbreviation:  Q1
* Month Name:  April
* Month Long Name:  April, 2022
* Month Abbreviation:  Apr
* Day Name:  Monday
* Day Abbreviation:  Mon

Populating the Date dimension table can be done by calling the AddDimensionDate procedure and passing in a start date and an end date. The following is an example:  

        Execute dbo.AddDimensionDate '1/1/2010', '12/31/2020'

See the Dimension.Date table script in the Tables directory for the full list of columns generated by the procedure</p>
<br/>

## Time Dimension Objects
The solution includes two versions of the Time table: one for time at a minute interval and one at a second interval. Either one can be used depending on the required level of precision. There is also a TimeFrame table to support the span of time elapsed (e.g. 10 Hours and 2 Minutes). Each of these is populated by their respective stored procedures. 
